README.md, before:

![PruneCluster](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/e30525b1a92f01204ac69039a642e370c85bf906.png)
============

PruneCluster is a fast and realtime marker clustering library.

It's working with [Leaflet](http://leafletjs.com/) as an alternative to [Leaflet.markercluster](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.markercluster).

 
*The library is designed for large datasets or live situations.* The memory consumption is kept low and the library is fast on mobile devices, thanks to a new algorithm inspired by collision detection in physical engines.

![](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/resize/728/720/59dedba492400bfefddf3179fa83f18fbf4ee599.png)
**Some tweets over the world**

### Features

#### Realtime
The clusters can be updated in realtime. It's perfect for live situations.

#### Fast

Number of markers|First step|Update (low zoom level)|Update (high zoom level)
---------|------------------|------------------------|------------------
[100](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.100.html)|instant|instant|instant
[1 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.1000.html)|instant|instant|instant
[10 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000.html)|14ms|3ms|2ms
[60 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.60000.html)|70ms|23ms|9ms
[150 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.150000.html)|220ms|60ms|20ms
[1 000 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.1000000.html)|1.9s|400ms|135ms

These values are tested with random positions, on a recent laptop, using Chrome 38. One half of markers is moving randomly and the other half is static. It is also fast enough for mobile devices.

If you prefer real world data, the [50k Leaflet.markercluster example](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/realworld.50000.html) is computed in 60ms *([original](http://sintef-9012.github.io/Leaflet.markercluster/example/marker-clustering-realworld.50000.html))*.

#### Weight
You can specify the weight of each marker.

For example, you may want to add more importance to a marker representing an incident, than a marker representing a tweet.

#### Categories

You can specify a category for the markers. Then a small object representing the number of markers for each category is attached to the clusters. This way, you can create cluster icons adapted to their content.

[![](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/ebc9e5393a8a018abb8771a3155b802f05995792.png)](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-categories.html) [![](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/d02e09d5fe43654141693f22924f606f4fd6960a.png)](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-categories-2.html)

#### Dynamic cluster size

The size of a cluster can be adjusted on the fly *([Example](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-size.html))*

#### Filtering
The markers can be filtered easily with no performance cost.


### Usage
```javascript
var pruneCluster = new PruneClusterForLeaflet();

...
var marker = new PruneCluster.Marker(latitude, longitude);
pruneCluster.RegisterMarker(marker);
...

leafletMap.addLayer(pruneCluster);
```


#### Update a position
```javascript
marker.Move(lat, lng);
```

#### Deletions
```javascript
// Remove all the markers
pruneCluster.RemoveMarkers();

// Remove a list of markers
pruneCluster.RemoveMarkers([markerA,markerB,...]);
```

#### Set the category
The category can be a number or a string, but in order to minimize the performance cost, it is recommended to use numbers between 0 and 7.
```javascript
marker.category = 5;
```

#### Set the weight
```javascript
marker.weight = 4;
```

#### Filtering
```javascript
marker.filtered = true|false;
```

#### Set the clustering size
```javascript
pruneCluster.Cluster.Size = 87;
```

#### Apply the changes

**Must be called when ANY changes are made.**

```javascript
pruneCluster.ProcessView();
```

#### Add custom data to marker object

Each marker has a data object where you can specify your data.
```javascript
marker.data.name = 'Roger';
marker.data.ID = '76ez';
```

#### Setting up a Leaflet icon or a Leaflet popup

You can attach to the markers an icon object and a popup content
```javascript
marker.data.icon = L.icon(...);  // See http://leafletjs.com/reference.html#icon
marker.data.popup = 'Popup content';
```

#### Faster leaflet icons

If you have a lot of markers, you can create the icons and popups on the fly in order to improve their performance.

```javascript
function createIcon(data, category) {
    return L.icon(...);
}

...

marker.data.icon = createIcon;
```

You can also override the PreapareLeafletMarker method. You can apply listeners to the markers here.

```javascript
pruneCluster.PrepareLeafletMarker = function(leafletMarker, data) {
    leafletMarker.setIcon(/*... */); // See http://leafletjs.com/reference.html#icon
    //listeners can be applied to markers in this function
    leafletMarker.on('click', function(){
    //do click event logic here
    });
    // A popup can already be attached to the marker
    // bindPopup can override it, but it's faster to update the content instead
    if (leafletMarker.getPopup()) {
        leafletMarker.setPopupContent(data.name);
    } else {
        leafletMarker.bindPopup(data.name);
    }
};
```

#### Setting up a custom cluster icon
```javascript
pruneCluster.BuildLeafletClusterIcon = function(cluster) {
    var population = cluster.population, // the number of markers inside the cluster
        stats = cluster.stats; // if you have categories on your markers

    // If you want list of markers inside the cluster
    // (you must enable the option using PruneCluster.Cluster.ENABLE_MARKERS_LIST = true)
    var markers = cluster.getClusterMarkers() 
        
    ...
    
    return icon; // L.Icon object (See http://leafletjs.com/reference.html#icon);
};
```

#### Redraw the icons

Marker icon redrawing with a flag:

```javascript
marker.data.forceIconRedraw = true;

...

pruneCluster.ProcessView();
```

Redraw all the icons:
```javascript
pruneCluster.RedrawIcons();
```

### Acknowledgements

This library is developed in context of the [BRIDGE](http://www.bridgeproject.eu/en) project.

### Licence

The source code of this library is licenced under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Cluster.Size clatification
I thought Cluster.Size was related to how many markers would be merged with each cluster, but it is about its dimension and margin ratio. 

I also tried to improve PruneClusterForLeaflet's constructor documentation.

README.md, after:

![PruneCluster](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/e30525b1a92f01204ac69039a642e370c85bf906.png)
============

PruneCluster is a fast and realtime marker clustering library.

It's working with [Leaflet](http://leafletjs.com/) as an alternative to [Leaflet.markercluster](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.markercluster).

 
*The library is designed for large datasets or live situations.* The memory consumption is kept low and the library is fast on mobile devices, thanks to a new algorithm inspired by collision detection in physical engines.

![](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/resize/728/720/59dedba492400bfefddf3179fa83f18fbf4ee599.png)
**Some tweets over the world**

### Features

#### Realtime
The clusters can be updated in realtime. It's perfect for live situations.

#### Fast

Number of markers|First step|Update (low zoom level)|Update (high zoom level)
---------|------------------|------------------------|------------------
[100](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.100.html)|instant|instant|instant
[1 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.1000.html)|instant|instant|instant
[10 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000.html)|14ms|3ms|2ms
[60 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.60000.html)|70ms|23ms|9ms
[150 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.150000.html)|220ms|60ms|20ms
[1 000 000](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.1000000.html)|1.9s|400ms|135ms

These values are tested with random positions, on a recent laptop, using Chrome 38. One half of markers is moving randomly and the other half is static. It is also fast enough for mobile devices.

If you prefer real world data, the [50k Leaflet.markercluster example](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/realworld.50000.html) is computed in 60ms *([original](http://sintef-9012.github.io/Leaflet.markercluster/example/marker-clustering-realworld.50000.html))*.

#### Weight
You can specify the weight of each marker.

For example, you may want to add more importance to a marker representing an incident, than a marker representing a tweet.

#### Categories

You can specify a category for the markers. Then a small object representing the number of markers for each category is attached to the clusters. This way, you can create cluster icons adapted to their content.

[![](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/ebc9e5393a8a018abb8771a3155b802f05995792.png)](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-categories.html) [![](http://medias.master-bridge.eu/d02e09d5fe43654141693f22924f606f4fd6960a.png)](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-categories-2.html)

#### Dynamic cluster size

The size of a cluster can be adjusted on the fly *([Example](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-size.html))*

#### Filtering
The markers can be filtered easily with no performance cost.


### Usage
```javascript
var pruneCluster = new PruneClusterForLeaflet();

...
var marker = new PruneCluster.Marker(latitude, longitude);
pruneCluster.RegisterMarker(marker);
...

leafletMap.addLayer(pruneCluster);
```

### PruneClusterForLeaflet constructor
PruneClusterForLeaflet([size](#set-the-clustering-size), margin)

You can specify the size and margin which affect when your clusters and markers will be merged.

size defaults to 120 and margin to 20.

#### Update a position
```javascript
marker.Move(lat, lng);
```

#### Deletions
```javascript
// Remove all the markers
pruneCluster.RemoveMarkers();

// Remove a list of markers
pruneCluster.RemoveMarkers([markerA,markerB,...]);
```

#### Set the category
The category can be a number or a string, but in order to minimize the performance cost, it is recommended to use numbers between 0 and 7.
```javascript
marker.category = 5;
```

#### Set the weight
```javascript
marker.weight = 4;
```

#### Filtering
```javascript
marker.filtered = true|false;
```

#### Set the clustering size
You can specify a number indicating the area of the cluster. Higher number means more markers "merged". *([Example](http://sintef-9012.github.io/PruneCluster/examples/random.10000-size.html))*
```javascript
pruneCluster.Cluster.Size = 87;
```

#### Apply the changes

**Must be called when ANY changes are made.**

```javascript
pruneCluster.ProcessView();
```

#### Add custom data to marker object

Each marker has a data object where you can specify your data.
```javascript
marker.data.name = 'Roger';
marker.data.ID = '76ez';
```

#### Setting up a Leaflet icon or a Leaflet popup

You can attach to the markers an icon object and a popup content
```javascript
marker.data.icon = L.icon(...);  // See http://leafletjs.com/reference.html#icon
marker.data.popup = 'Popup content';
```

#### Faster leaflet icons

If you have a lot of markers, you can create the icons and popups on the fly in order to improve their performance.

```javascript
function createIcon(data, category) {
    return L.icon(...);
}

...

marker.data.icon = createIcon;
```

You can also override the PreapareLeafletMarker method. You can apply listeners to the markers here.

```javascript
pruneCluster.PrepareLeafletMarker = function(leafletMarker, data) {
    leafletMarker.setIcon(/*... */); // See http://leafletjs.com/reference.html#icon
    //listeners can be applied to markers in this function
    leafletMarker.on('click', function(){
    //do click event logic here
    });
    // A popup can already be attached to the marker
    // bindPopup can override it, but it's faster to update the content instead
    if (leafletMarker.getPopup()) {
        leafletMarker.setPopupContent(data.name);
    } else {
        leafletMarker.bindPopup(data.name);
    }
};
```

#### Setting up a custom cluster icon
```javascript
pruneCluster.BuildLeafletClusterIcon = function(cluster) {
    var population = cluster.population, // the number of markers inside the cluster
        stats = cluster.stats; // if you have categories on your markers

    // If you want list of markers inside the cluster
    // (you must enable the option using PruneCluster.Cluster.ENABLE_MARKERS_LIST = true)
    var markers = cluster.getClusterMarkers() 
        
    ...
    
    return icon; // L.Icon object (See http://leafletjs.com/reference.html#icon);
};
```

#### Redraw the icons

Marker icon redrawing with a flag:

```javascript
marker.data.forceIconRedraw = true;

...

pruneCluster.ProcessView();
```

Redraw all the icons:
```javascript
pruneCluster.RedrawIcons();
```

### Acknowledgements

This library is developed in context of the [BRIDGE](http://www.bridgeproject.eu/en) project.

### Licence

The source code of this library is licenced under the MIT License.
